Okay so
let's actually run some of these fits.
Lets first just fit the model that
doesn't include religion at all.
Okay so it's just fertility,
is a linear regression with agriculture.
Now I've already created my plot and
labeled it G, but
I want to save that plot so
I can keep adding different things to it.
So I'm going to assign that to G1.
And then I'm going to add to it
a line that grabs the intercept and
the slope from my new fitted,
from my new fit and then let me plot it.
Okay, so there's my fitted line, and
let me show you my coefficients summaries.
So I'm going to do summary of
my fitted linear aggression and
I'm just going to grab
the coefficient table.
So here's my intercept, it hits around 60,
you can see that right there,
and then there's my agriculture
slope which is about 0.19.
Okay, so this just disregards
the color of the dots.
Let's do one now that
fits two parallel lines.
Okay, so now here my fit my
linear model fit is fertility
as agriculture but
now my Catholic variable.
My percent of the province that's
Catholic that I've binarized.
I'm going to include it
as a factor variable.
Because this variable CatholicBin is 01,
remember back from the dummy variables
part of the lecture, I don't actually
have to have this factor statement.
Because coding a variable of 0
versus 1 treats it as a factor.
However I like to always call things
factor variables and the reason for
this is sometimes I have a variable that
012 for example for a 3 level variable.
And if I don't then call that a factor,
R is going to treat that
as a continuous regressor.
It's going to say 2 is twice 1,
even if 2 is just my numeric coding for
representing red hair color and
1 is for brown hair color.
Something like that,
where 2 really has nothing to do
with being twice 1 in that case.
So I like to get in the habit of
calling factor variables always
factor in my models just so
I don't make that mistake.
Now when you print out your summary,
you would hopefully notice that
there's only one coefficient.
And so you would hopefully notice
that you've made that mistake.
But this is an easy way to avoid it.
I don't maybe always live
up to this standard of
treating my factor variables
always with the factor statement.
But I try.
Okay.
So there I fit it.
And let's first look at the coefficients.
So here's the intercept.
Here is the slope and the slope is
the same regardless of the religion
of the province, and then here is
the change in the intercept for
those that are Catholic, for
those provinces that are Catholic.
So let's go ahead and plot these.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to
copy my old plot that's just the scatter
plot and then I'm going to add two
lines to it, one that is the line for
Protestants which is just the intercept
plus this Agriculture slope.
And then I'm going to add
one that is the line for
those provinces that
are majority Catholic.
So my intercept changes by adding the
first coefficient, which is the intercept
and the third coefficient which is this
7.88, but my slope stays the same.
It's just the same slope, so let me put
that in, and then now let me plot that.
And there you see what that looks like.
It's two fitted lines, where now I've
forced the fits to have different
intercepts but they have the same slope.
Now let's do some lines where they
have different intercepts and
different slopes depending on the percent
of the province that is Catholic.
So this one now, I put an asterisk and
I'll describe in a second
what this asterisk does.
So I did the fit.
Now I'm going to do the summary(fit)$coef,
maybe it's not the best practice
to keep naming your model fits the same
exact variable and overwriting it,
you probably want to save them.
So now look what happens.
I have an intercept,
I have my slope, okay?
So this intercept is the intercept for
mostly Protestant provinces,
the slope is the slope for
mostly Protestant provinces.
This 2.86 plus 62,
that's going to be the intercept for
the mostly Catholic provinces.
And this slope plus this slope,
0.1 basically, plus 0.9.
That's going to be the slope for
the mostly Catholic provinces.
Because remember our coefficients added.
What happens when you add an asterisks
in between two variables in R?
Is it automatically fits the interaction?
So here's my interaction term.
Here's my interaction term
plus all the main effects.
And here's the main effect for Catholic,
here's the main effect for Agriculture and
the intercept.
I'll show you in a minute how you
can avoid doing that in R though,
you want to be very
careful with doing that.
In general you want to include the main
effects, if you include the interaction.
Okay, so now let's plot those two lines.
So, here I'm going to assign
my plot to be this original scatter
plot that I keep overriding.
Then I'm going to add two lines to it.
The first is the line for
the mostly Protestant provinces.
They're my first coefficient
is the intercept and
my second coefficient is the slope.
Now I'm going to add a line that is the
line for the mostly Catholic provinces.
So here, Here is my Intercept.
Which is the first coefficient.
Right.
The first coefficient 62 here.
Plus the third coefficient.
Right.
The one,
this ones that's the Catholic main effect.
Okay.
And then the slope is going to be
the second coefficient.
Right.
This one right here.
0.96 plus the fourth coefficient,
the interaction term that is the slope and
the province being mostly Catholic.
And let me plot it, there you see it.
And so now what we have is two different
intercepts and two different slopes.
You can see, of course,
that these lines are not parallel.
And you can see, so
you might not know which line is which but
we can guess from the coefficients right?
So all the interaction terms,
all the Catholic terms were positive.
So this line with the slightly higher
intercept is going to be the Catholic line
and this line for the slighty lower
intercept is going to be the mostly
Protestant, so the salmon colored dots.
Okay, now I think you can
probably see that well for
the blue dots it's not clear what
these two blue dots over here,
how they're impacting the fit, so
we might want to investigate that.
But that's for the next lecture
where we talk about residuals and
influence diagnostics and
that sort of thing.
The last thing I want to do.